In this paper we have shown how forward secrecy prop-erties of crypto-protocols can be expressed and reasonedabout using rank functions. We have introduced the conceptProceedings of the 18th IEEE Computer Security Foundations Workshop (CSFW’05)1063-6900/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEEAuthorized licensed use limited to: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY CALICUT. Downloaded on June 29,2010 at 07:49:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.of a temporal rank function that not only allows us to rea-son about what messages an attacker can deduce, but whenin the protocol he can deduce them. We have applied the ap-proach to two examples, establishing a proof of correctnessin one case and rediscovering an attack in the other. Bothof these examples considered a protocol running on an un-bounded network that allows principals to engage in arbi-trarily many protocol runs concurrently. We also describedthe motivation for using temporal ranks by demonstratingthat some protocols may be unverifiable when using tech-niques that classify values as simply public or secret.The present work can be seen as contributing to a grow-ing body of research that aims to move beyond the familiarrealms of perfect encryption, authentication, and secrecy, byrelaxing the restrictions on the intruder and considering thewider class of security properties that become relevant as aresult.It is interesting to note that all of the rank functions givenin this paper are three valued: 0, n and oo and, in fact, itwould have been sufficient to fix at some arbitrary finite,non-zero, value. In general, a temporal rank function will bethree-valued if all compromised values are assumed to beleaked at the same time. In the worst case, a temporal rankfunction with & separate leak points will have k + 2 distinctranks. It is not clear whether, in practice, more than threeranks will ever be required. If three ranks are indeed suf-ficient, then the theory presented above should almost cer-tainly be refined to reflect this fact. In seeking to presenta general theory we have had to introduce some concepts(such as the idea of a family of functions) which would beredundant in a three-rank theory.A temporal rank function can be viewed as establish-ing a hierarchy of secrecy, where a message my is less se-cret than a message mp if p(m1) < p(m2). One messageis therefore more secret than another if it must remain se-cret for longer. Such a fine-grained notion of secrecy hasproven useful in the present work, and it would be interest-ing to consider whether temporal ranks can be applied in amore general setting.Ata higher level of abstraction, our treatment of forwardsecrecy allows us to form a rather natural hierarchy of se-crecy specifications, since, in our model, secrecy is impliedby the presence of partial forward secrecy and, in turn, par-tial forward secrecy is implied by the presence of full for-ward secrecy. This invites us to verify security protocols in asimilarly hierarchical way; either by working upwards fromsecrecy or downwards from some stronger condition. Thetop-down approach (starting with, say, full forward secrecy)would tend to involve a more difficult proof but would havethe pleasing side-effect of guaranteeing all weaker secrecygoals by implication. Developing useful notions of secrecythat extend this hierarchy, in either direction, seems an in-teresting research challenge.7. AcknowledgementsThanks to Colin Boyd for responding to our questionsand to Gavin Lowe, whose critique of our earlier approach[6] prompted the present work. Martin Green, Neil Evansand the programme committees of WITS’05 and CSFW-18made many valuable comments on various incarnations ofthis paper.